Referrer-Policy: document effect on the Origin header (#44982)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/reference/headers/referrer-policy/index.md

    > [!WARNING]
    > This policy will leak potentially-private information from HTTPS resource URLs to insecure origins. Carefully consider the impact of this setting.

## Effect on the `Origin` header

The referrer policy also decides what the browser puts in the {{HTTPHeader("Origin")}} header, not just the {{HTTPHeader("Referer")}} header.
This only applies to requests that don't use [CORS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CORS) and whose method is neither `GET` nor `HEAD`.
For those requests the browser sends `Origin: null` in place of the serialized origin in these cases:

- The policy is `no-referrer`.
- The policy is `no-referrer-when-downgrade`, `strict-origin`, or `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`, and the request goes from an `https` origin to a URL that isn't `https`.
- The policy is `same-origin` and the request is cross-origin.

Any other policy value leaves the `Origin` header set to the request's origin.

> CORS requests, WebSocket requests, and WebTransport requests always send the serialized origin, whatever the referrer policy, because they already opt into sharing the origin with the server.

Reviewer: Thanks @davidpavlovschi .

What you had isn't wrong. I find the structure a little hard to parse. I was thinking if we do it like this it is immediately clear which cases still send the original origin. I've also tried to differentiate between cors the setting and cors the mode.

Is it better/worse/same?

```suggestion
The referrer policy also affects whether the user agent sets the {{HTTPHeader("Origin")}} header with the request's origin or as `null` (not just the {{HTTPHeader("Referer")}} header).

Requests using `GET` or `HEAD`, or made in `cors`, `websocket`, or `webtransport` [mode](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request/mode), always send the real `Origin` value, regardless of the referrer policy.

For other requests — such as HTML form submissions or `fetch()` calls using `mode: "same-origin"` or `"no-cors"` — the user agent sets `Origin` to `null` when the referrer policy is:

- `no-referrer`.
- `no-referrer-when-downgrade`, `strict-origin`, or `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`, and the request goes from an `https` origin to a URL that isn't `https`.
- `same-origin`, and the request is cross-origin.

Any other policy value leaves the `Origin` header set to the request's origin.

> [!NOTE]
> Because `fetch()` defaults to `mode: "cors"`, a same-origin `fetch()` `POST` always sends its real `Origin`, even under `Referrer-Policy: no-referrer`. This behavior mainly shows up for non-`fetch()` requests, like HTML form submissions.
```

Author: Applied, thanks — putting the unaffected cases first does make it immediately clear which requests still send the real origin, and separating cors-the-request-mode from CORS-the-protocol removes the ambiguity my version had. I took your `> [!NOTE]` about `fetch()` defaulting to `mode: "cors"` as-is.

One small edit inside your text: I changed "always send the real `Origin` value" to "are never affected: if the user agent sends an `Origin` header for them at all, it sends the request's origin". In the Fetch Standard's "append a request `Origin` header" algorithm, step 3 only runs when the method is neither `GET` nor `HEAD`, so a same-origin `GET` navigation ends up with no `Origin` header rather than a real one. The rest of the paragraph, including the `Request.mode` link, is yours unchanged.

I also added the reciprocal link on the `Origin` page: its `null`-cases bullet now points at the new Referrer-Policy section instead of naming only `no-referrer`.

    > [!WARNING]
    > This policy will leak potentially-private information from HTTPS resource URLs to insecure origins. Carefully consider the impact of this setting.

## Effect on the `Origin` header

> The referrer policy also affects whether the user agent sets the {{HTTPHeader("Origin")}} header with the request's origin or as `null` (not just the {{HTTPHeader("Referer")}} header).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The referrer policy also affects whether the user agent sets the {{HTTPHeader("Origin")}} header with the request's origin or as `null` (as well as the {{HTTPHeader("Referer")}} header).
```

Requests using `GET` or `HEAD`, or made in `cors`, `websocket`, or `webtransport` [mode](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request/mode), are never affected: if the user agent sends an `Origin` header for them at all, it sends the request's origin, regardless of the referrer policy.

For other requests — such as HTML form submissions or `fetch()` calls using `mode: "same-origin"` or `"no-cors"` — the user agent sets `Origin` to `null` when the referrer policy is:

- `no-referrer`.
- `no-referrer-when-downgrade`, `strict-origin`, or `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`, and the request goes from an `https` origin to a URL that isn't `https`.
- `same-origin`, and the request is cross-origin.

Any other policy value leaves the `Origin` header set to the request's origin.

> [!NOTE]

> > Because `fetch()` defaults to `mode: "cors"`, a same-origin `fetch()` `POST` always sends its real `Origin`, even under `Referrer-Policy: no-referrer`. This behavior mainly shows up for non-`fetch()` requests, like HTML form submissions.

Reviewer: Its a little confusing still, because under the hood HTML form submissions are also fetch() requests. Also it isn't clear what "this"  in "this behaviour" applies to - I think it is the null-origin behaviour. 

We can make this more clear by differentiating the navigation mode.

```suggestion
> Because `fetch()` defaults to `mode: "cors"`, a same-origin `fetch()` `POST` always sends its real `Origin`, even under `Referrer-Policy: no-referrer`. The null-`Origin` behavior above therefore mainly applies to `navigate`-mode requests, like HTML form submissions, rather than to `fetch()` calls.
```
